---
layout: default
title: IDT Syllabus SY1920
---

![FBLA](../../../img/fbla.jpg)

Introduction to Digital Technology

Course Syllabus

2019-2020

Screven County High School

Instructor: Mr. Alex Collins

Classroom: 407

Phone: 912.451.2300

Email: alex.collins\@screven.k12.ga.us

**Course Description:**

Introduction to Digital Technology is the foundational course for Web &
Digital Communications, Programming, Advanced Programming, Information
Support & Services, and Network Systems pathways. This course is
designed for high school students to understand, communicate, and adapt
to a digital world as it impacts their personal life, society, and the
business world. Exposure to foundational knowledge in hardware,
software, programming, web design, IT support, and networks are all
taught in a computer lab with hands-on activities and project focused
tasks. Students will not only understand the concepts, but apply their
knowledge to situations and defend their actions/decisions/choices
through the knowledge and skills acquired in this course. Employability
skills are integrated into activities, tasks, and projects throughout
the course standards to demonstrate the skills required by business and
industry. Competencies in the co-curricular student organization, Future
Business Leaders of America (FBLA), are integral components of both the
employability skills standards and content standards for this course.
Various forms of technologies will be highlighted to expose students to
the emerging technologies impacting the digital world. Professional
communication skills and practices, problem-solving, ethical and legal
issues, and the impact of effective presentation skills are taught in
this course as a foundational knowledge to prepare students to be
college and career ready. The knowledge and skills taught in this course
build upon each other to form a comprehensive introduction to digital
world.

Various forms of technologies will be highlighted to expose students to
the emerging technologies impacting the business world. Professional
communication skills and practices, problem-solving, ethical and legal
issues, and the impact of effective presentation skills are taught in
this course as a foundational knowledge to prepare students to be
college and career ready. Introduction to Digital Technology is a course
that is appropriate for all high school students. The pre-requisite for
this course is advisor approval.

**Course Requirements:**

-   Open mind

-   Desire to do something

-   Pen (black and red), pencil, 3 ring notebook, composition book, and
    paper

**Co-curriculum:**

-   This is a co-curricular course and the topics covered will be
    foundations of FBLA.

-   Students are encouraged to join and participate in FBLA.

**Classroom Rules, Guidelines, and Expectations:**

-   Students will abide by the rules outlined in the class and in the
    SCHS handbook

-   Students will be prepared

-   Student will participate and complete assignments to the best of
    their abilities

**Consequences:**

-   Students violating classroom rules and guidelines will experiences
    an escalating scale of consequences:

    -   Verbal/written warning

    -   In School Detention

    -   Parental contact

    -   Referral

-   Students should understand that this is a learning environment and
    disciplinary actions are not the intent, but a consequence.

**Grading Rubric:**

-   Daily Grades -- 50%

-   Tests and Projects -- 50%

-   There will be an exam at the end of the semester that will count 20%
    of the students overall semester grade.

-   Students will be given a work ethic grade twice a semester that will
    count in their Daily Grades.

**Work Ethic Grade:**

-   You will receive a daily grade after every week of a project.
    (minimum 2 daily grades per semester).

-   You will start with a grade of 100. You will be marked off 5 points
    for every infraction. You could get more than 5 points marked off in
    a day.

-   The minimum grade you could receive is a zero.

-   If you want to know where you stand at the end of each week, it is
    your responsibility to come by before school or after school if you
    do not have time during class.

-   Your work ethic will be graded in the following areas:

  **Attendance**   **Behavior**           **Preparation**
  ---------------- ---------------------- -----------------
  ISS              Excessive Talking      Materials
  Suspension       Idle(not doing work)   Homework
  Tardy            Laying head down       
  Restroom         Rude                   
  Nurse            Food/Drink/Gum         
                   Other school rules     

**Make Up Work:**

-   Students are expected to make up any tests that were missed as a
    result of their absence the day the return. Students are responsible
    for getting missed assignments within two days of returning from an
    excused absence. Students will have five days to complete and turn
    in missed assignments. It is the responsibility of the student to
    check with the teacher upon returning to school to make up any
    missed assignments.

-   Work outside of the windows mentioned above will be taken, but at a
    discount. A student turning in an assignment late or for unexcused
    makeup will be given only 70% of their earned grade. That is, Johnny
    didn't turn in his homework on Monday, but turned it in on Friday.
    After it was graded, he scored 80%. Since it was late, it will be a
    56%. Remember, this is better than a zero any day of the week.

**Topics Covered:**

-   Entrepreneurship

-   Technology

-   Employability

-   Management and Leadership Skills

-   Professional Communication Skills

-   Human Resources

-   Vocabulary of the IT World

-   Computer Networks

-   Web Design

-   Computational Problem Solving

**Behavior Matrix:**

-   The behavior matrix is introduced and discussed as a part of the
    class.

-   The behavior matrix is posted with the school with behavior matrix
    in the classroom.

This syllabus is subject to change at the discretion of the teacher.
